---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "The central role of the propensity score in observational studies for causal effects"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In this paper, the authors discussed the propensity score and talked mainly about using propensity score to eliminate biases in observational studies. The paper talks about 
threotical properties in large and small sample theory. It gives the guarantee that if treatment assignment is strongly ignorable, then we can get average treatment effect
from what we observe. The paper provides three applications to observational study: adjustment in observational studies, construct matched samples from treatment groups, 
and subclassification on propensity scores.

The paper is written in a way that is easy to understand (possibly because I have audited the Causal Inference class before), and it gives both theoretical and empirical results on
the propensity score on observational study. However, although the paper is written in 1983, I am surprised that there is no figure at all in the paper, since exploratory analysis
is still important to understand the data.

Questions:

1. In the paper, it said " in a randomized trial, the propensity score is a known function". I wonder why this is true, and what is the function?
2. If x contains some unobserved confounding factor, will propensity score still be able to adjust for the bias?
3. Matching is an interesting method to get a control group that the distribution is similar to treatment. However, how to evaluate the quality of matching? (I mean for example, there might be samples that can't be matched at all?) Also, there are a lot of control samples wasted, this does hurt, right?
