---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Let's Practice What We Preach\: Turning Tables into Graphs"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

This article mainly recommends using graphs instead of tables. It states that "the interest in a statistical paper typically lies in comparisons, not absolute numbers", and "tables are best suited for looking up specific information, and graphs are better for perceiving trends and making comparisons and predictions".
It provides some principles for data display, and applys them on tables in several articles on Journal of American Statistical Association. 
In conclusion section, they provided typical steps for data displays in statistical research:

(1) identify the key comparisons of interest;

(2) display these on small individual plots with comparison lines or axes where appropriate;

(3) establish enough control over the graphical display so that small legible plots can be juxtaposted as necessary.

After reading the article, I think it is great that they pointed out that tables are not as sufficient as graphs in data display, and summarized ways to change tables into graphs. Indeed, even right now, I can still see some papers using tables to compare methods, which is very inefficient in providing information to readers. For example, there is a Nature Method paper in 2020 comparing GAM, SPRITE and Hi-C, that in the end, when they compare the performance of those methods, they use a small table. I think tables should only be used when they are summarizing information for various datasets or methods using a large amount of texts, or when it is in the supplementary material, where this part is used for readers to get more information.

However, after reading the article, I have two questions:

(1) The paper is in 2002, so it is a bit outdated, and right now, there are a lot of big data. For example, I have a scRNA-seq data that have a lot of cell-types, and when drawing a UMAP plot for this, even just the names of cell-types take a lot of space in the legend. What do you think about this?

(2) Another question is that in biomedical research, we will normally have a main figure in the beginning showing all the main result. However, recently, when I am working on the main figure for one paper, I am unable to control the size. If it is too small, it is also not good since people can't see this clearl. Do you have any idea?
