---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Evaluating the Impact of Database Heterogeneity on Observational Study Results"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

This paper uses multiple observational databases to evaluate the impact the database heterogeneity on observational study results. In this paper, 
they study heterogeneity among databases, holding other study methods constant, by exploring relative risk estimates for 53 drug-outcome pairs and 
2 widely used study designs (cohort studies and self-controlled case series) across 10 observational databases. When holding the study design constant, 
the analysis shows that estimated relative risks range from a statistically significant decreased risk to a statistically significant increased risk.
Their findings showed that clinical studies that use observational databases can be sensitive to the choice of database.

First, one thing not related to much to the article is that this paper uses a huge amount of tables, which is crazy. The result is not surprising since observational study is severely influenced by biases. Though they use propensity score to adjust for that, it might not
be enough. Better methods should be proposed to completely eliminate the biases in observational studies. Their advise in discussion part is precious. If
we are trying to interpret results from a single observational data source, more attention is needed to consider how the choice of data source may be affecting
results, and when it comes to multiple sources, consistency should be carefully identified.
