---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "The Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial Results"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In the article, they conducted Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial (LRC-CPPT) to test the efficacy of cholesterol-lowering 
in reducing the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). It was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind study. The treatment group received the bile acid sequestrant 
cholestyramine resin and the control group received a placebo for an average of 7.4 years. Both groups followed a moderate cholesterol-lowering diet. The LRC-CPPT
findings show that reducing total cholesterol by lowering LDL-C levels can diminish the incidence of CHD morbidity and mortality in men at high risk for CHD because
of raised LDL-C levels. 

In part II of the article, they find that the reduction of CHD incidence in the cholestryamine group were mediated chiefly by reduction of TOTAL-C and LDL-C levels.

The article is very well-designed and all the steps and procedures are well-documented in the article. Every conclusion comes with solid evidences. 
I guess the only problem in the writing of the article is that they should you graphs more often.

However, for the experiment itself, I do have some questions:

1. Is it ethical to give placebo to patients for ten years? For research propose it might be necessary to do so, but are there alternative medicines to be used as plcaebo?

2. In "All-Cause Mortality", is it necessary to put this section in the main text rather than the appendix? Since in this section, other causes or mortality are not
associated to the death.
