---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Open collarborative writing with Manubot" and "Opportunities and obstacles for deep learning in biology and medicine"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

"Open collarborative writing with Manubot" mainly gives a software called Manubot to enable collaborative authoring of scholarly manuscripts. With Manubot, manuscripts are written
in Markdown and stored in a Git repository to precisely track changes over time. "Opportunities and obstacles for deep learning in biology and medicine" gives an extremely detailed
overview on the application of deep learning in biomedical area. This article gives deep learning methods that work well in various areas, and also gives obstacles that still exist
in those areas.

One thing is that I am not quite sure why these two paper are put together to discuss, since they are not very related, but we will know that in the class. Another thing is that
why is "Open collarborative writing with Manubot" on PLOS Computational Biology Journal, since this Manubot is universal to many other areas. Still, for  "Open collarborative writing 
with Manubot" it provides a great way to promote collaboration among writers in articles. We mostly use Overleaf, but I will certainly try Manubot. For "Opportunities and obstacles
for deep learning in biology and medicine", this is very thorough, and it does not only include methods for different areas, but also include methods for interpretation.

