---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Benefits and Risks of Screening Mammography for Women in Their Forties: a Statistical Appraisal"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In this paper, it discussed benefits and Risks of Screening Mammography for Women in Their Forties using meta-analysis on eight studies of mortality data from randomized trials. 
The Mantel-Haenszel test shows 18% of the reduction of breast cancer mortality from screening. The author discussed concerns for biases on each study included in the 
meta-analysis in detail. I don't think the author addressed (or can address) those biases, but the more important part is the conclusion on benefits and risks. In the conclusion
part, the author talked about the benefits (possible delay in death) and risks (false-positive findings, inconvenience, pain, and anxiety). He also talked about better ways to 
communicating benefits and risks to women and their caregivers, and it should be conveyed quantitively and easily.

I like how the paper is written, which it carefully discussed all the potential biases in trials, and it gives specific suggestions, and for the discussion from Kopans and Halpern,
I don't really like this part. In the discussion, especially on the Canadian trial part, they seem to critize the paper too much. It said that "Berry suggests that it was the most 
believable trial because of its size", but I really didn't see this sentence in the article. The authors of the discussion seems to miss the point Berry tried to convey, which
is actually in the title, that is "benefits and risks", although the comment from Kopans and Halpern is accurate.

Questions:

1. Is mammography nowadays more comfortable and more accurate? 
