---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on gene set enrichment analysis
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

The paper "Gene set enrichment analysis" on PNAS discuss the method GSEA, which analyzes groups of genes to see if they share common biological function. The basic idea
of GSEA is to first rank the genes by correlation to the phenotype class, create a running sum statistic based on the genes, and the enrichment score is the maximum 
deviation from zero. Another article about diabetes utilizes this method and identified a set of genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation whose expression is 
coordinately decreased in human diabetic muscle.

The paper is nicely written, that the questions I had when starting to read the paper are all answered. I was at first thinking that we can simply use whether the gene
appears in the list and do a proportion test, but the author directly mentions this that "the set do not represent biologiclaly relevant correlation with the phenotype".
Another thing I was thinking is that the correlation with the phenotype can be reversed, since one can say that diseased condition is 1, or healthy condition is 1. 
In the article, when dealing with the real data, it seems that they separately analyze positive correlation genes and negative correlation genes. I think one question 
related to this is that in the article when introducing the method, they still put to kinds of genes together, which is strange. Another question is that the genes in 
the list summarized by authors are not necessarily complete, and perhaps erroneous. Will this be harmful?

