---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "What information should be required to support clinical omics publications?"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

This article, similar to the article discussed before, mostly focus on Dr. Potti's research, but instead of discussing the detail of his research, this paper discussed methods for
a more open research. It said that raw data, the code used to derive to results from the raw data, evidence of the provenance of the raw data so that labels could be checked, 
written descriptions of any nonscriptable analysis steps, and prespecified analysis plans should be supplied to the journal. This article also claims that omic signatures are 
medical devices, and the method should go though FDA.

I agree completely with this paper that codes should be supplied, and I think nowadays there are some journals requesting this. For papers I read from Nature Methods, and Cell
Reports, authors attach their code for most of their statistical analysis. This is indeed a warning to authors that their code might be checked in the future, and this at least
avoids intentional cheating. For the "medical devices" part, I am not so sure about this. For Dr. Potti's research, it is clear that it should be, but where is the boundary?
For example, if I cheat to publish a paper about a certain disease, and claim that gene A is contributing a lot to this disease, this will mislead the future research, but the 
result might not go to a clinical trial. For this kind of paper, more regulation might still be needed.
