---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Cluster failure why fMRI inferences for spatial extent have inflated false-positive rates"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In this article, the authors analyzed clustering methods (SPM, FLAME1, FSL OLS, 3dttest, 3dMEMA). From the analysis, they claimed that the false-positive rates in parametric
approaches are greatly inflated, and this results in the questioning of previous published fMRI studies from the media. They compared those methods with a nonparametric method 
and showed that the nonparametric method can produce valid but a bit conservative FPRs. Diving deep into those classical methods, they found that a flawed assumption that is made by 
many previous methods is that the spatial autocorrelation function of fMRI noise is Gaussian-shaped.

Even with the letter from Cox et al., the problem mentioned in the paper still exists. I think the reason for the problem is as mentioned in the paper: there are only simulations
rather than real data analysis. In genomics, I think we have similar problems, but the problem is relatively less detrimental. I read several papers on differential analysis or 
significance detection in Hi-C data, but a small portion of papers only have simulation part, but thankfully, other papers have real data analysis and biological analysis. we can
always validate the result by looking at other assays. For example, when we find a loop in Hi-C, it is possible to confirm it by looking at ATAC-seq or ChIP-seq data. For this,
I am actually wondering whether fMRI papers have this kind of property?
