---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "Deriving chemosensitivity from cell lines: forensic bioinformatics and reproducible research in high-throughput biology"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

This article, mostly focus on Dr. Potti's research, tried to reproduce the result from his five articles, but all failed. By looking deeper into the failures, this article 
found that the failures are mostly due to poor documentation, and simple error from Potti's articles. 

I like the process of reading the paper, since it is sharing how authors find the errors quite vividly. Apart from this, this article is also a great warning for researchers.
On the one hand, I understand how Dr. Potti felt when seeing a really positive result. Getting a scientific finding is exciting, but it is in this moment that we should be more 
cautious, since our result will affect the future research. Every time when I see that the result is unbelievely good, I will make sure that there isn't any bugs that cause it.
On the other hand, the paper seems to state that those errors are made by accident, but if not, this is a bigger problem. Simple errors can be solved by more careful coding and 
experiments, but if scientists are faking results deliberately, the current reviewing process is still hard to identify the fake results. Scientists like Dr. Elisabeth Bik stand
up against it, by staring at figures everyday, but the effect is limited, since this won't cover all the papers in the whole scientific field. Perhaps this can only be achieved by
monitoring at the university level.
