---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on four articles on PRDM9
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In these four articles, the authors discuss the extent that PRDM9 controls which crossovers occur in preferred chromosomal locations (hotspots). PRDM9 is highly
polymorphic, and this forms of PRDM9 recognize different DNA sequences and therefore can promote crossovers at different chromosomal sites among individuals. 
Parvanov et al. used a mouse cross to fine-map teh candidate regions to four genes, and argued that PRDM9 is the only logical candidate gene. Baudat et al. narrowed a 
region that they mapped previously and identified PRDM9 as the cancidate gene. They then looked at human population and found three allelic forms of PRDM9: A, B and I.
I allele encodes a protein that doesn't recognize the 13-mer hotspot motif. Myers et al. used a computational approach and found that human PRDM9 is the only zinc finger
protein that binds to the 13-mer motif, and this motif is not active in chimpanzees. This may be due to evolution in humans. 

I am not familiar to this kind of study, so I don't have any point to discuss here. The questions I have are also quite specific. The first question is that in Myers et
al., why are they using bootstrap? I feel that this is just comparing the proportion difference and this can be solved by an exact test. Also, in this paper, what is the
difference between motif and motif activity? In the article, there are two sentences: "To assess whether motifs have been gained in chimpanzees or lost in humans", and 
"To determine whether motif activity has been lost on the chimpanzee lineage or gained on the human lineage", and I was unable to see the difference.
