---
layout: post
title: Summary and Comment on "50 years of data science"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
tags: [BMI881]
comments: true
---

In this paper, the author summarized the 50 years of data science after Tukey's FoDA (Future of Data Science). The author first compares statistics with data science, by showing 
the response of statistics professions, which are very different. The paper then talked in detail about FoDA with exhortations and reification. It talks about the two culture by 
professor Leo Breiman. Then, it claims that the secret sauce of machine learning contains common task framework (CTF) and predictive culture. It talks about the teaching of data
science with the example of UC Berkeley master program, and it ends with the full scope of data science.

Overall, this is a very comprehensive paper that discusses a lot of contents on data science. I agree with most of the points in the paper, but there are some confusions or 
something I am not so sure about. For example, the author mentioned Hadoop for distributed computing. For most of (perhaps all) the data we have, it is true that we don't need 
this kind of tools to do data analysis, but I still think that this exists (and will exist) for some reasons. For example, Hadoop may boost the speed of loading the data in R.
Unfortunately, I don't know much about Hadoop, so I can't say much about it. Also, another thing is that will data analysis training help students become expert? Different areas
have completely different ways and things to preprocess and analyze the data. I feel like only by doing research or being an interm can students truly understand what they will be 
doing when they become a researcher or an data analyst.
